EXCLUSIVE: Jenner Confidant Slams ‘Extremely Harmful’ Report Alleging Reality Star Has Considered De-Transitioning

In correspondence with Breitbart News, a confidant of Caitlyn Jenner slammed as “extremely harmful” and “flat out not true” a report from the author of a new book about the Kardashian family claiming that Jenner is miserable following gender reassignment surgery and has considered transitioning back to a man.

“It’s flat out not true and extremely harmful,” stated publicist Alan Nierob.

Nierob, an executive at the powerful Rogers and Cowan global marketing and public relations agency, has represented Jenner and has reportedly known Jenner since the mid 1980’s.  Variety Magazine described Nierob as the “person guiding the strategy behind the scenes” for the “masterful” publicity campaign surrounding Jenner’s transition.

This is the second vehement denial from the Jenner camp today. Earlier on Thursday, Jenner’s rep told the New York Daily News of the report, “Of course it’s not true.”

“Not worth commenting on such an idiotic report,” the rep further told the Daily News.

The denials are in response to a report on The Wrap citing Ian Halperin, the author of “Kardashian Dynasty: The Controversial Rise of America’s Royal Family,” saying that while researching his book multiple sources told him Jenner has been miserable for months living as a woman and that Jenner has considered transitioning back to a man.

The Wrap reported:

Ian Halperin, the author of “Kardashian Dynasty: The Controversial Rise of America’s Royal Family,” said that, while researching his book, multiple sources told him that the former Olympian had been miserable for months and has considered transitioning back to a man.

“One source confirmed to me Caitlyn has made whispers of ‘sex change regret,’ hinting she might go back to being Bruce Jenner,” Halperin said.

Halperin said that one long-time friend told him that, while Jenner was “thrilled” to champion transgender issues, the reality TV personality could de-transition “in the next couple years.”

Aaron Klein is Breitbart’s Jerusalem bureau chief and senior investigative reporter. He is a New York Times bestselling author and hosts the popular weekend talk radio program, “Aaron Klein Investigative Radio.” Follow him on Twitter @AaronKleinShow. Follow him on Facebook.

 

.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

