GOP Challenger Abraham Chides Governor of LA for ‘Illegal Executive Order’ Pushing Transgender Agenda

Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA), the Republican frontrunner in the October “jungle primary” Louisiana gubernatorial election, blasted his opponent, incumbent Democrat Gov. John Bel Edwards, for his stance on transgender issues on Sunday.

Abraham’s comments came during his exclusive interview with Breitbart News Washington political editor Matt Boyle on Breitbart News Sunday, broadcast on Sirius XM Patriot Channel 125.

“He came out with an ad late last week. He’s also a doctor. In the ad he states explicitly that, as a doctor he can state clearly there are only two genders. Now the entire establishment media, MSNBC all these folks, was completely triggered by this. They were saying that it’s highly controversial. It’s not really controversial to state facts,” Boyle began in his introduction of Abraham.

“So this ad really really triggered the left. The left was freaked out about it. I think MSNBC … did a whole segment about how it was extraordinarily controversial to say, as a fact, as you do as a doctor, that there are only two genders. Tell us about that,” Boyle asked.

“It’s a symptom of where our culture is when an ad as simple as this is, is this controversial. The voters need to know where the candidates stand on these issues. We did our best to start the conversation with this latest ad,” Abraham began.

“I’m opposed to discrimination of any kind, and there are EEOC laws on the books right now that protect people in the workplace. But I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but as a rural doctor who has delivered my share of babies, I can assure you there are only two genders. It would take me about two seconds to look at a newborn and let the parents know whether it was a boy or girl,” Abraham asserted.

“As a doctor, you also say in this ad that life begins at conception. Again, this should not be a controversial thing, but for some reason it is to the left,” Boyle noted.

“It is controversial to the left, but to those of us that believe, we know that life begins at conception,” Abraham responded.

“Back to this ad, this ad has everything to do with this race in the state of Louisiana,” he continued.

“In 2016, our current governor, John Bel Edwards, issued an illegal executive order that mandated state contractors accommadate employees who identify as a different gender than their biological sex. So, it could have disrupted infrastructure projects if the contractors did not comply. Thank goodness our great Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry challenged the legality of the order, and Edwards wasted taxpayers’ money defending it, and of course, the Louisiana Supreme Court ruled that the executive order of John Bel Edwards was unconstitutional,” Abraham said.

“This is about the lawsuits, I mean virtually every new transgender law that I’ve looked at, that is proposed, comes with actional legal verbage, meaning that it gives cause of action for someone to sue an employer. So, it’s about lawsuits,” Abraham concluded.

In the most recent poll of the race, conducted by Hayride/Multiquest between July 19 and July 21, Edwards leads Abraham by nine points, 44 percent to 35 percent.

If no candidate wins an outright majority of votes in the  October 12 “jungle primary,” the top two candidates will face each other in a runoff election on November 16.

You can listen to the full interview here:

 



.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

