How the Washington Post Gets the North Carolina Anti-Trans Law Wrong

On Saturday, the Washington Post opined that North Carolina lawmakers have rushed “to bigotry” in passing a new non-discrimination law.

“It is pretty clear that nothing was gong to deter North Carolina lawmakers from their blind rush to enact legislation sweeping away basic protections for gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender people,” asserts an unsigned editorial in the Washington Post.

Not only did the editorial use the word “bigotry,” it went to intone the words “hateful,” “appalled,” and “human decency.”

The problem with this and other coverage of the new law is the editorial board gets the new law wrong. They assert the new law prevents “local governments from extending civil rights protections to gay and transgender people…” In fact, the new law goes far beyond even federal protection, according to North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory. Moreover, the new law ensures that local ordinances comport with the state laws.

The editorial accuses lawmakers of not allowing “transgender people from using bathrooms that do not match the gender they were born with.” In fact, according to a press release issued this week by McCrory, so-called transgender people may use the bathroom that matches their “gender identity,” as long as they have gone through the legal process of changing their sex on their birth certificate.

Major corporations, that long ago were taken over by the sexual left, continue to threaten the state. The NBA is threatening to pull the All-Star Game from the state. Disney, which is about to open a facility in China where the government forces some women to have abortions, is threatening to pull out of the state. American Airline, that has a hub in Charlotte, has denounced the law.

McCrory released a statement this week outlining “myths vs. facts” about the new law.

This past week, the American College of Pediatricians described the transgender ideology as a form of child abuse.

.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

