Nolte: CNNLOL Freakshow — ‘No Consensus Criteria for Assigning Sex at Birth’

Why is America pointing and laughing at the far-left cable channel CNN? Because CNNLOL is America’s joke, a punchline, a way to get a laugh and an eye roll from friends and strangers alike.

When CNNLOL is not championing hate and violence against President Donald Trump and his supporters or lobbying to have black neighborhoods burned down, CNNLOL is getting caught lying, getting caught spreading fake news, and getting caught publishing anti-science lies like this one (to stop the cancerous spread of the corporate media’s fake news, I do not link fake news). Emphasis added:

[South Dakota’s Republican Gov. Kristi] Noem’s conservative critics, including the editors of the National Review, accused her veto of being motivated by fear of “expensive lawsuits and potential boycotts.”

Though the two executive orders signed by Noem do not explicitly mention transgender athletes, they ​reference the supposed harms of the participation of “males” in women’s athletics — an echo of the transphobic claim, cited in other similar legislative initiatives, that transgender women are not women. The orders also reference “biological sex,” a disputed term that refers to the sex as listed on students’ original birth certificates.

​It’s not possible to know a person’s gender identity at birth, and there is no consensus criteria for assigning sex at birth.

HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA *deep breath* HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA *deep breath* HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA…

CNNLOL doesn’t think it’s possible to know a baby’s gender identity. CNNLOL says there’s no consensus for assigning sex at birth!!!

HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA *deep breath* HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA *deep breath* HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA…

Either there’s a stem on the apple or there’s not, folks.

CNNLOL also believe “biological sex” is a “disputed term.”

HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA *deep breath* HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA *deep breath* HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA…

And this is why CNN is known worldwide as “CNNLOL.”

No one believes this nonsense. No one. The first thing…. The VERY first thing that happens at birth is the identifying the baby’s gender.

Is it a boy or girl?

Congratulations, you have a son. 

Congratulations, you have a daughter. 

And yet these lunatics at CNNLOL, who also don’t believe this crap, are ensuring they remain a national joke and punchline with the anti-science claim “biological sex” is a “disputed claim” and it’s impossible to know a baby’s sex at birth because the penis or lack thereof is so darned confusing.

Why do people subject themselves to this garbage? Why would anyone watch or read CNNLOL, a lunatic propaganda outlet devoted to gaslighting, deceiving, and lying to you?

And when CNNLOL is not lying to you, CNNLOL is desperately hoping to encourage the burning and looting of predominantly black neighborhoods.

And when CNNLOL is not encouraging the burning and looting of predominantly black neighborhoods, CNNLOL is aggressively lobbying to get former President Trump and his supporters killed.

CNNLOL chief Jeff Zucker has utterly and forever destroyed the CNNLOL brand, and….

I have enjoyed every single minute of it.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.

.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

