Pediatricians Call Gender Discordance Conditioning Child Abuse

The American College of Pediatricians (ACP) has issued a report urging legislators and educators to reject all policies that condition children to accept as normal “a life of chemical and surgical impersonation of the opposite sex.” They say endorsing “gender discordance” is “child abuse.”

The report published by the ACP concludes that “conditioning children into believing a lifetime of chemical and surgical impersonation of the opposite sex is normal and healthful is child abuse.”

Moreover, the rates of suicide they report is twenty percent greater among adults who use cross-sex hormones and undergo sex reassignment surgery. This is true even in Sweden which the ACP says, “is among the most LGBQT affirming countries.”

These pediatricians say that encouraging gender discordance will lead children to go to “gender clinics” where they will be given “puberty-blocking drugs.” “Children who use puberty blockers to impersonate the opposite sex will require cross-sex hormones in late adolescence,” the report says. Cross-sex hormones are associated with dangerous health risks including but not limited to high blood pressure, blood clots, stroke and cancer, the ACP reports.

The ACP also reports that taking these drugs “virtually ensures that they will ‘choose’ a lifetime of carcinogenic and otherwise cross-sex hormones” and will also “likely consider unnecessary surgical mutilation of their healthy body parts as young adults.”

The ACP journal states that human sexuality is an objective biological trait and human beings are conceived as either male or female. No one is born with a “gender” which is an awareness and sense of oneself as male or female. They say that gender is a sociological and psychological concept, not an “objective biological one.” They conclude that “A person’s belief that he or she is something they are not, is at best, a sign of confused thinking.”

Moreover, they report, “According to the DSM-V, as many as 98 percent of gender confused boys and 88 percent of gender confused girls eventually accept their biological sex after naturally passing through puberty.”

Conservatives and traditionalists believe that glorifying or affirming transgenders such as Caitlyn Jenner, is a liberal, Hollywood attempt at conditioning children to embrace gender discordance, and to accept chemical and surgical “remedies” to address this problem.

Lana Shadwick is a writer and legal analyst for Breitbart Texas. She has served as an associate judge and prosecutor in Texas. Follow her on Twitter @LanaShadwick2

.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

