‘The View’: Joy Behar Compares Bruce Jenner Supporting Ted Cruz to ‘Jews for Hitler’

On Tuesday’s The View on ABC, co-host Joy Behar likened Bruce “Caitlyn” Jenner’s support for Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz to “Jews for Hitler.”

“Transgenders for Cruz is like Jews for Hitler,” said left-wing Joy Behar.

According to TheWrap, the comment was made during a discussion about Jenner’s apparent sudden flip-flop on Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.

On this week’s episode of E!’s I Am Cait, which follows Jenner’s gender transition, Jenner described the former Secretary of State as a “f—king liar” and a “political hack.”

On Monday, however, Jenner posted a photo of himself with Clinton and used tags indicating he is reconsidering his opinion of the candidate.

#learningfrommygirls #willingtolisten pic.twitter.com/M05VyaNObG

— Caitlyn Jenner (@Caitlyn_Jenner) March 14, 2016

“#learningfrommygirls #willingtolisten,” wrote Jenner alongside the image.

Reacting to Behar’s “Jews for Hitler” comment, bisexual co-host Raven-Symoné said, “When you go through that much of a change so quickly, especially in the public eye, I think, personally, you should have taken a hiatus or break and stepped back and really lived in the transgender world, not just go right into it.”

Co-host Michelle Collins then questioned Jenner’s motives for publicly reconsidering opposition to Hillary.

“I don’t know if she really believes, like if she really is open,” said co-host Michelle Collins. “I hope she is, but I wonder if part of it is to kind of put that fire out a little bit with the community because they are very upset.”

Jenner outraged many in the trans and LGBT communities earlier this month, after he stated support for Sen. Cruz.

In an interview with The Advocate on Wednesday Mar. 2, Jenner praised Cruz for being a “great constitutionalist” and expressed interest in becoming the Texas Senator’s “trans ambassador,” should he become president.

.

Please let us know if you're having issues with commenting.

